0.13: One-Shot system Improvements (#909)
bevyengine/bevy-website: content/news/2024-02-03-bevy-0.13/index.md

TODO.

## One-Shot Systems Improvements

<div class="release-feature-authors">authors: @Nathan-Fenner</div>

In 0.12, we introduced [one-shot systems](https://bevyengine.org/news/bevy-0-12/#one-shot-systems), a handy way to call systems on demand without having to add them to a schedule.
The initial implementation had some limitations with regards to what systems could and could not be used as one-shot systems.

> These limitations have since been resolved, starting with one-shot systems with in- and output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These limitations have since been resolved, starting with one-shot systems with input and output.
```

```rust

fn increment_sys(In(increment_by): In<i32>, mut counter: ResMut<Counter>) -> i32 {
    counter.0 += increment_by;
    counter.0
}

let mut world = World::new();

> let id = world.register_system(increment_sys);

Author: For the sake of brevity, I think I'll leave it out of the main post, but I like the idea of adding type annotations and maybe a comment to the code example. I'll do that later.

world.insert_resource(Counter(1));
let count_one = world.run_system_with_input(id, 5).unwrap(); // increment counter by 5 and return 6
let count_two = world.run_system_with_input(id, 2).unwrap(); // increment counter by 2 and return 8
```

Using either `world.run_system_with_input(system_id, input)` or `commands.run_system_with_input(system_id, input)`, you can now supply input parameters to systems that accept them. Additionally, both `world.run_system` and `world.run_system_with_input` now return system output as `Ok(output)`. Note that output cannot be returned when calling the system through commands, because of their deferred nature.

> Some smaller improvements to one-shot systems include registering boxed systems with `register_boxed_system` (which was already possible since 12.1, but didn't get a blog post) and it being possible to register exclusive systems as one-shot systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some smaller improvements to one-shot systems include registering boxed systems with `register_boxed_system` (which was already possible since 0.12.1, but didn't get a blog post) and it being possible to register exclusive systems as one-shot systems.
```

> Some smaller improvements to one-shot systems include registering boxed systems with `register_boxed_system` (which was already possible since 0.12.1, but didn't get a blog post) and it being possible to register exclusive systems as one-shot systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some smaller improvements to one-shot systems include registering boxed systems with `register_boxed_system` (which was already possible since 0.12.1, but didn't get a blog post) and the ability to register exclusive systems as one-shot systems.
```

```rust

> world.system_register(|world: &mut World| { /* do anything */ });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
world.register_system(|world: &mut World| { /* do anything */ });
```
